LAB WEEK 3

The lab starts with talking about the different topologies that are incorporated in network designs.
It introduced the star, bus, and ring topologies each with their benefits and downsides.

The star topology is when devices are individually connected to a central networking device. Commonly found today
because it is reliable and scaleable. Its downside is that it is the most expensive of the topologies and requires the most maintenance.

Bus Topology works by having a single connection to a backbone. It is one of the easiest and cost efficient of the topologies but it can be bottlenecked and no other devices can recieve
or transmit data.

Ring topology is when computers connect directly to each other to form a loop with the added benefit being that there is less cabling required and hardware is less dependent
The ring topology is also easy to troubleshoot but because of it being one direction for data to travel it isnt very efficient.


Part 2 talks about subnetting.
How subnetting works by splitting the number of hosts that can fit within a network represented by a number called a subnet mask. Octets are the 4 sections of an IP adderess and subnets are used to identify the network, host, and default gateway.


The ARP protocol (Address resolution protocol) is the technology that allows devices to identify themselves on a network. The ARP protocol allows the device to associate its mac address with an IP address on the network. By sending a broadcast to the entire 
network it can communicate with them. A device can store a network to its ledger to quickly communicate with a device, this is called a cache.
The ARP protocol sends a message (ARP REQUEST) to every device on the network, and if the device has the requested IP address a reply is sent back to the initial device (ARP REPLY).

The last part talks about DHCP. DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) is a protocol that can automatically assign an IP address to a device if it already doesn't have one or if it is needed to entered manually.

DHCP DISCOVER--->DHCP OFFER--->DHCP REQUEST v
^----------<-------DHCP ACK--------<--------<