LAB5

Active Reconnaissance

Active reconnaissance means to have contact with a target using direct connection

In this section we will learn how to use tools like Ping, traceroute and telnet for active reconnaissance.


Web Browser

Using a web browser is a good way to learn information about a target. 
Through transport the browser can connect to:
	TCP port 80 when the website is accessed over HTTP
	TCP port 443 when the website is accessed over HTTPS

PING

The purpose of ping is to see if you can contact the remote system and if they can contact you back to conclude that the remote system is online.

[C1]--->Ping Packet--->[C2]
 ^---------Reply--------v

In the attack box it had us use the ping commands while using Linux. I learned that ping is used with the ICMP protocol to speak to the second machine.
	Ping = ICMP echo/type 8
	Ping Reply = ICMP echo reply/type 0

If we dont get a reply back it could mean a few things
-second pc is turned off, currently booting, or the OS crashed
-Unpugged from the network
-Firewall is blocking the packets
-Or host system is not connected to the network

Traceroute

Tracerout is the command that will trace the route taken by packets from host to host.
Its purpose is to find the IP addresses of routers (hops) that a packet has gone through from client to client.

	Mac/Linux - traceroute 10.10.91.149
 	Windows - tracert 10.10.91.149

When a packet is sent through traceroute the packet starts with a TIME TO LIVE value of 64 and will decrease by 1 everytime it will pass through a hop.
If it ever reaches 0 the packet will be dropped and will send a ICMP time-to-live exceeded message to the original sender.


Telnet

Teletype Network protocol was created to communicate with a remote system via a command-Line interface. 
	-Sends all data in cleartexts

NC

Netcat supports both TCP and UDP and can fuction as a client that connects and listens to a port, Can act as a server that also can listen to a port.
	





 